xshisen - Shisen-sho puzzle game for X11


       xshisen  is  a puzzle game for X11.  Similar to the famous
       "Shang-hai", your objective is to remove all the pieces on
       the board.  

       The game will over when you remove all the pieces  on  the
       board.   The  pieces  can be removed only when both of the
       following conditions are true.


       (1) The 2 pieces have the same picture

       (2) The 2 pieces can be connected with up to 3 lines which
           do not go over other pieces.

       It may seem difficult rule, but is easier than describing
       in
       words.  "Auto-demo" mode must be very useful  for  you  to
       understand the rule.

OPTIONS
       The following command line options are available.

       standard Xt options
               xshisen  accepts  standard  toolkit  options  like
               -display, or -iconic.

       -demo   Auto-demo  mode.   You  cannot play game with this
               mode, but the game will proceed by computer  auto-
               mated  algorithm.   This  mode is quite useful for
               you to understand rules.

       -score  Just displays the best score dialog and exits.
       -mag number
               Magnify main window by number times.  The standard
               window  will be 640x400.  Number may be a decimal,
               but the range is limited from 0.5 to  the  display
               size.

       -fn fontlist
               Use fontlist for menubar and times.

       -large  Play  double sized game.  Game size can be changed
               with menubar after you started xshisen.  Each game
               size has independent best time records.

       -huge   Play  quadruple  sized  game.   Game  size  can be
               changed with menubar after  you  started  xshisen.
               Each  game size has independent best time records.

       -trial  Play as "Click Trial" mode.  You can measure  your
               mouse operation speed with this feature.

       -gravity
               Enable  gravity  effect.  All the pieces above the
               removed pieces will fall down.

MENU BAR AND KEYBOARD
       Start (Control + D)
               Starts new game. The pieces are located at  random
               position.

       Restart (Control + R)
               Restarts  the  current game. The time of restarted
               game will not be recorded as the best score.

       Pause (Control + P)
               Pauses the game. The time count will  be  stopped,
               but  also  the pieces picture will be hidden.  You
               can resume your game to do "Pause" again.

       Exit    Exits the Shisen-sho.

       Search (F1)
               Teaches the pair you can remove now.  You can  use
               "Search"   anytime,  but  the  time  will  not  be
               recorded as the best score  if  you  use  "Search"
               even once.


       Back (F5)
               Backs  one step.  The time will not be recorded if
               you use "Back".


MOUSE CONTROL
       The following mouse control is available.  You can  change
       mouse  button  bindings  with XShisen*drawing.translations
       resource.

       Button 1
               Specifies the piece to remove.  You can cencel the
               selection when you click the selected piece again.

       Button 3
               Cancels the selected piece.  You can use button  3
               after "Search", which cancels the search result.

