Math::Symbolic is intended to offer symbolic calculation capabilities to 
the Perl programmer without using external (and commercial) libraries 
and/or applications.

Unless, however, some interested and knowledgable developers turn up to 
participate in the development, the library will be severely limited by my 
experience in the area. Symbolic calculations are an active field of 
research in CS.

There are several ways to construct Math::Symbolic trees. There are no 
actual Math::Symbolic objects, but rather trees of objects of subclasses 
of Math::Symbolic. The most general but unfortunately also the least 
intuitive way of constructing trees is to use the constructors of the 
Math::Symbolic::Operator, Math::Symbolic::Variable, and 
Math::Symbolic::Constant classes to create (nested) objects of the 
corresponding types.

Furthermore, you may use the overloaded interface to apply the standard 
Perl operators (and functions, see "OVERLOADED OPERATORS") to existing 
Math::Symbolic trees and standard Perl expressions.

Possibly the most convenient way of constructing Math::Symbolic trees is 
using the builtin parser to generate trees from expressions such as '2 * 
x^5'. You may use the Math::Symbolic->parse_from_string() class method for 
this.

Of course, you may combine the overloaded interface with the parser to 
generate trees with Perl code such as "$term * 5 * 'sin(omega*t+phi)'" 
which will create a tree of the existing tree $term times 5 times the sine 
of the vars omega times t plus phi.

There are several modules in the distribution that contain subroutines 
related to calculus. These are not loaded by Math::Symbolic by default. 
Furthermore, there are several extensions to Math::Symbolic availlable 
from CPAN as separate distributions. Please refer to "SEE ALSO" for an 
incomplete list of these.

For example, Math::Symbolic::MiscCalculus come with Math::Symbolic and 
contains routines to compute Taylor Polynomials and the associated errors.

Routines related to vector calculus such as grad, div, rot, and Jacobi- 
and Hesse matrices are availlable through the 
Math::Symbolic::VectorCalculus module. This module is also able to compute 
Taylor Polynomials of functions of two variables, directional derivatives, 
total differentials, and Wronskian Determinants.

Some basic support for linear algebra can be found in 
Math::Symbolic::MiscAlgebra. This includes a routine to compute the 
determinant of a matrix of Math::Symbolic trees.

WWW: http://search.cpan.org/dist/Math-Symbolic
Author: Steffen Müller <symbolic-module@steffen-mueller.net>
