xpuyo version 0.0 (21/Sep/1993)
        takahasi@huee.hokudai.ac.jp (Una TAKAHASHI)

	translated by Yukihiro Nakai<Nakai@Mlab.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp>

Xpuyo is the tetris-like down-type puzzle game for X-Window version.
Now only man vs man game is available, with two different consoles through 
 network.

Requested systems

    GCC, X11R4 or upper

    ss2, news, omron luna88k(some fixed) can let xpuyo work with no problem
    and I receipt a report EWS-4800(NEC) does that also.

Complile

    For written in ANSI C, compiler is set to gcc by default.
    Type:

    xmkmf
    make depend
    make

    to compile xpuyo. You can ignore warning if it appear some.
    And type:

    make install

    to install xpuyo.

    It needs the application defauls file , so please cp or ln the file 
    Xpyuo.ad to ~Xpuyo or somewhere 

Play

    Type:

    xpuyo

    to start xpuyo. 
    Each player must start xpuyo and connect each other.

    Now one player only game is not available. Players must start xpuyo from 
    each console. When play from different hosts, one of the players specify
    another hosts. When play from same host with X terminals , it doesn't 
    need. One is automatically become a server, and the other a client.
    Then, you play 'puyo puyo'. Look and feel how to bound or rotate.

Extra

    Start xpuyo with -sigle option and do self-playing. But this is for debug
    , so 'Jama Puyo' fall on yourserf.

Known Bugs

    Play on different type machine may cause byte order problem. 
	-> Because xpuyo send and receive binary data.(TODO)

    'Far' host may make games what couldn't be games.
	-> No consideration for low bandwidth. (Hmmmmmm.... ^^);

    Very dirty code around network.
	-> To rewrite , yes.

    No man pages.
	-> When I have some time..

    There's no copyright description in the sources.
	-> Next time (Do I write in English??)


    Author(i.e. me) won't do bug fix.
	-> Only my laziness (sorry)

Bug report

    Please e-mail to me if you have some problem or so.
    Write your machine environment with it.

Copy rights

    (Please read README.jp)

Special Thanks

   Very pretty bitmaps are made by zenjy@huie.hokudai.ac.jp. Thanks to 
   who do test play or other.

   Additionaly, thanks to GNU project released GCC, MIT released X-Window.

takahasi@huee.hokudai.ac.jp 
