Contents of perl5 Net class:

Net::FTP - FTP Client class

       Net::FTP is a class implementing a simple FTP client in
       Perl as described in RFC959

       Net::FTP provides methods that will perform various
       operations. These methods could be split into groups
       depending the level of interface the user requires.      


Net::Time - time and daytime network client interface

       Net::Time provides subroutines that obtain the time on a
       remote machine.


Net::DummyInetd - A dummy Inetd server

       Net::DummyInetd is just what it's name says, it is a dummy
       inetd server.  Creation of a Net::DummyInetd will cause a
       child process to be spawned off which will listen to a
       socket. When a connection arrives on this socket the
       specified command is fork'd and exec'd with STDIN and
       STDOUT file descriptors duplicated to the new socket.   


Net::NNTP - NNTP Client class

       Net::NNTP is a class implementing a simple NNTP client in
       Perl as described in RFC977. Net::NNTP inherits its
       communication methods from Net::Cmd   


Net::SNPP - Simple Network Pager Protocol Client

       This module implements a client interface to the SNPP
       protocol, enabling a perl5 application to talk to SNPP
       servers. This documentation assumes that you are familiar
       with the SNPP protocol described in RFC1861.        


Net::POP3 - Post Office Protocol 3 Client class (RFC1081)

      This module implements a client interface to the POP3
       protocol, enabling a perl5 application to talk to POP3
       servers. This documentation assumes that you are familiar
       with the POP3 protocol described in RFC1081.       


Net::Cmd - Network Command class (as used by FTP, SMTP etc)   

       Net::Cmd is a collection of methods that can be inherited
       by a sub class of IO::Handle. These methods implement the
       functionality required for a command based protocol, for
       example FTP and SMTP.       

Net::SMTP - Simple Mail transfer Protocol Client

       This module implements a client interface to the SMTP
       protocol, enabling a perl5 application to talk to SMTP
       servers. This documentation assumes that you are familiar
       with the SMTP protocol described in RFC821.    


Net::Domain - Attempt to evaluate the current host's internet name and domain

       Using various methods attempt to find the Fully Qualified
       Domain Name (FQDN) of the current host. From this
       determine the host-name and the host-domain. 


Net::Netrc - OO interface to users netrc file

      Net::Netrc is a class implementing a simple interface to
      the .netrc file used as by the ftp program.      


Net::Telnet - Defines constants for the telnet protocol

       This module is VERY preliminary as I am not 100% sure how
       it should be implemented.

       Currently it just exports constants used in the telnet
       protocol.                                  

WWW: http://search.cpan.org/search?dist=libnet
