Tips for the System Administrator:

Prior to Field Day:

To prevent users from inadvertently starting up more than one kb_server
(which would be a very bad thing), I put the kb_server executable on the
non-server computers with a different name.  That way, if the server
computer dies and a backup computer needs to become the server, the file
is there and just needs to be renamed back to kb_server.

I set up the network computers at home before Field Day to make sure
everything works as expected.  Last year, the battery died in one of the
computers less than a week before Field Day, and a hard disk died on
another a couple of weeks before that.  Much better to have it happen at
home!  I also set up all the Initial Screen information before Field Day
to save time at the site.  KB will save a zero-byte data file that will
come up automatically when you start KB at Field Day.  (It's most
convenient to do this in June, since KB's default contest for May is WPX
CW.  In June, it's Field Day.)

At Field Day:

It's best to start up the client on the server computer before the other
clients are started.  This will minimize network traffic, since the
first client connected to the server is assumed to be the master client.
   When the master client is on a different computer from the server,
all the traffic between them is over the network, not local.  If you
lose the master client (say someone accidentally exits KB on that
machine), the second-connected client automatically becomes the master,
and the network keeps going, but less efficiently.  Similarly, when
shutting down the network, it's best (but not essential) to shut down
the remote clients first and then the master client last.  When the last
client has exited, the server program shuts down automatically.

If a network computer gets turned off by accident, restart it.  When you
reconnect it to the network, all the log information will be
resynchronized with what's already on the network.  If it's a client
that goes down, it's all automatic.  If it's the server, you'll have to
reconnect all the clients after the server is running again.

The VHF station at the AARA Field Day uses KB, but is not connected to
the network.  6-meters is logged as 160-meters, and the higher bands are
logged up from there.  The VHF ops leave me a note as to which "band" is
which.  After Field Day, I edit the band designators on the electronic
dupe sheets to reflect the correct bands.  I then copy the VHF dupe
sheet file into the HF dupe sheet file for submittal.  (Be careful here,
since the filenames from the HF and VHF stations for ALL of the files
(main data file, log, dupe sheets, etc.) will be identical.  Take
appropriate action to keep them straight.)  There is a command-line
capability with KB to specify a non-default file name, but using it at
Field Day, especially with unfamiliar users, is probably asking for trouble.

The GOTA station must not be networked with the other stations, since
all computers on the network are assumed to be logging with the same
call sign.  The GOTA station will need its own dupe sheet.  All warnings
about the identical file names for the VHF station apply here too.

I tend to prepare for the worst, so I like to do a file back-up
occasionally (to either a floppy disk or USB memory stick) using Alt-O
(Output).  Use separate media for the main network, VHF, and GOTA
stations to avoid overwriting the identically-named data files.  (If you
have a separate server computer, you won't have to interrupt any
operators on the network to do this.)  KB forces a hard disk write after
every logged QSO, and I've never lost a contact using KB (with power
outages, etc.), but I don't want to be a goat at Field Day(!).

After Field Day:

See VHF station tip above (for after Field Day items).

The summary sheet that KB generates is for use as an aid in filling out
the ARRL online entry form.  It is not for submittal to ARRL.  (ARRL
only wants the dupe sheets.)

Tips for Operators/Users:

General:

At the AARA Field Day (the first two years we used KB), we set up a
"Demo" computer to allow users to get familiar with how KB works.  This
computer was not networked to any of the "official" computers (the ones
with real Field Day logs on them).  They could play with this computer,
get stuck, ask questions, work North Korea, etc.  We also gave a
training session on this computer an hour or two before Field Day
started.  We won't be doing a demo station this year, but by now our ops
are familiar enough with KB that it isn't necessary.

Specific:

When using KB to send messages (either CW or DVK), it is more convenient
to "shift the function keys".  This allows each message to be sent with
a single keystroke.  Which type of message is sent (CW or DVK) is
determined by which mode has been selected (CW or phone).  The menu bar
functions then require pressing the shift key in conjunction with the
appropriate function key.

There are two "dupe modes" in KB: Ask and Always.  "Ask" is good for
search-and-pounce operation.  If a dupe is encountered, KB will ask
whether the operator wants to work that call again or not.  "Always" is
good for running stations.  In this mode, KB will mark each dupe with a
red star (and zero points), and let the operator continue without
interruption.  (When running, it's a lot faster to just work the dupes
rather than to argue with them about it.)

When editing a previously logged call (to correct any logging errors),
the proper way to complete the task is to press <Enter>.  Many
unfamiliar users (at our Field Day) hit <Escape> instead.  Unfortunately
for them, <Escape> is the command to clear a field.  Fortunately for
them (but only if they know about it), Alt-<Escape> will restore the
original contents of that field (before it was edited).  Then they can
try editing again, and use <Enter> to resume operating.

Also, when sending CW or DVK messages, the proper way to interrupt the
message is to press <Pause/Break>.  Unfortunately, unfamiliar operators
like to use <Escape> for this too, and KB dutifully clears the field.
There's no way to retrieve the previous contents in this case, however.
 (I'm going to try more Post-It notes on the keyboard this year.)

Many of our club's operators are long-time users of CT and WriteLog.  In
those programs, the space bar is used like a tab key.  In KB, the space
bar is used to reassemble two parts of a call sign.  (For example, the
operator only gets the last two letters of the call, RC, then asks for
the rest.  When the rest is received, the operator has typed in the call
field: RC VE3, which when <Enter> or <TAB> is pressed, gets reassembled
to VE3RC.  (Before Field Day 2006 started, our ops were insisting that
the space bar "has to be" used like a tab key, until they saw this.
Then they wondered how they could ever operate again without it.  We got
no complaints about the space bar in 2007.)

An operator at one station can send a message across the network using
Alt-M. (When the rate is slow, and/or the ops want to harass each other,
they can stay in touch this way.)  The messages will cover up part of
the menu bar (and the automatically generated network messages will also
do this).  Pressing Alt-R will redraw the screen with the full menu bar
restored.



