Valley Benchmark End-User License Agreement
Important - read carefully: This End-User License Agreement ("EULA")
is a legal agreement between you (either an individual or a single
entity, herein after referred as to the "User") and Unigine Corp.
(herein after referred as to the "Developer") for software product
"Unigine Valley Benchmark" (herein after referred as to the "Software
product"). You agree to be bound by the terms of this EULA by
installing, copying, or otherwise using the "Software product". If
you do not agree, do not install or use the "Software product".
1. Grant of license
"Developer" grants you the following rights provided that you comply
with all terms and conditions of this EULA:
1.1. Installation and use. It is allowed to install and use any number
of copies of the "Software product", which should be used only for
educational and evaluation purposes. 1.2. Reserve copying. It is
allowed to make copies of the "Software product" only for the purpose
of archiving and reserve copying.
2. Other rights and limitations
2.1. It is prohibited to open the technology and decompile, disassemble
the "Software product" and its components. 2.2. This present EULA does
not give the "User" any rights regarding any trade marks or names that
belong to the "Developer" and also it does not give any rights on the
"Software product" itself or its components except for those mentioned
in this present EULA. 2.3. It is prohibited to create any derivative
works based on the "Software product", ether commercial or not.
3. Copyright
3.1. All property rights and author's rights on the "Software product"
and regarding it belong to the "Developer" and are protected by
copyright acts and standards of international laws in the field of
author's rights protection, and also other laws and provisions about
protection of intellectual property. 3.2. The "Software product" can
not be copied, sold, spread or used (either as a whole or by parts) in
any other way that is not mentioned in the present agreement without
preliminary written consent of the "Developer" on it.
4. Refusal from guaranties and responsibility for straight or
consequential
4.1. The "User" himself is completely responsible for use of the
"Software product". Mostly that is allowed by the legislation that is
currently in force the "Developer" refuses from granting any guarantees,
obvious or implied including marketability, harmlessness or
applicability for any specific aim. 4.2. The "Developer" refuses to be
materially responsible for any specific, occasional, circumstantial or
related damage (i.e. all, without exception, kinds of losses: not
received profit, creation of business obstacles, discontinuance of
enterprise's activity, loss of important information or any other
material loss or any other losses) that appeared due to use or
impossibility to use this "Software product" even if the "Developer"
was notified about the possibility of this kind of damage.
5. Termination
Without prejudice to any other rights, "Developer" may cancel this EULA
if you do not abide by the terms and conditions of this EULA, in which
case you must destroy all copies of the "Software product" and all of
its component parts.
