#!/bin/sh
if [ "$2" != "POST-INSTALL" ]; then
  exit 0
fi
cat <<End_Of_License
Wingz 1.4.2 is licensed as shareware defined as follows.

Definition of Shareware
-----------------------

Shareware distribution gives users a chance to try software
before buying it. If you try a Shareware program and continue
using it, you are expected to register. Individual programs
differ on details -- some request registration while others
require it, some specify a maximum trial period. With
registration, you get anything from the simple right to continue
using the software to an updated program with printed manual.

Copyright laws apply to both Shareware and commercial software,
and the copyright holder retains all rights, with a few specific
exceptions as stated below. Shareware authors are accomplished
programmers, just like commercial authors, and the programs are
of comparable quality. (In both cases, there are good programs
and bad ones!) The main difference is in the method of
distribution. The author specifically grants the right to copy
and distribute the software, either to all and sundry or to a
specific group. For example, some authors require written
permission before a commercial disk vendor may copy their
Shareware.

Shareware is a distribution method, not a type of software. You
should find software that suits your needs and pocketbook,
whether it's commercial or Shareware. The Shareware system makes
fitting your needs easier, because you can try before you buy.
And because the overhead is low, prices are low also. Shareware
has the ultimate money-back guarantee -- if you don't use the
product, you don't pay for it.

Disclaimer and Agreement
------------------------

Users of Wingz 1.4.2 must accept this disclaimer of warranty:

"Wingz 1.4.2 is supplied as is. IISC disclaims all warranties,
expressed or implied, including, without limitation, the
warranties of merchantability and of fitness for any purpose.
IISC assumes no liability for damages, direct or consequential,
which may result from the use of Wingz 1.4.2"

Wingz 1.4.2 is a "shareware program" and is provided at no charge
to the user for evaluation. Feel free to share it with your
friends, but do not give it away altered or as part of another
system.  If you find this program useful and find that you are
using Wingz 1.4.2 and continue to use Wingz 1.4.2 after a
45 day trial period, you must make a registration payment to IISC.

Commercial users of Wingz 1.4.2 must register and pay for their
copies within 30 days of first use or their license is withdrawn.
Site-License arrangements may be made by contacting IISC.
Anyone distributing Wingz 1.4.2 for any kind of remuneration must
first contact IISC for authorization (see the REGISTER file for the
address).
End_Of_License
