  --enable-openmp         If enabled, configure will try to detect and enable
                          OpenMP support.
  --enable-tracing        If enabled, tracing messages might be emitted by the
                          library depending on run-time settings. Enabling
                          this option can degrade performance.
  --enable-indexed-coupons
                          If enabled, indexed coupons (see the documentation)
                          are used in floating legs. If disabled (the
                          default), par coupons are used.
  --enable-negative-rates If enabled (the default), negative yield rates are
                          allowed. If disabled, some features (notably, curve
                          bootstrapping) will throw when negative rates are
                          found.
  --enable-extra-safety-checks
                          If enabled, extra run-time checks are added to a few
                          functions. This can prevent their inlining and
                          degrade performance.
  --enable-sessions       If enabled, singletons will return different
                          instances for different sessions. You will have to
                          provide and link with the library a sessionId()
                          function in namespace QuantLib, returning a
                          different session id for each session.
  --enable-thread-safe-observer-pattern
                          If enabled, thread-safe version of the observer
                          pattern will be used. You should enable it if you
                          want to use QuantLib via the SWIG layer within the
                          JVM or .NET eco system or any environment with an
                          async garbage collector.
  --enable-thread-safe-singleton-init
                          If enabled, singleton initialization will be
                          thread-safe. This requires Boost 1.58 or later and
                          is not supported when sessions are enabled.
  --enable-parallel-unit-test-runner
                          If enabled, a parallel unit test runner is used to
                          execute the C++ test suite. This will reduce the
                          runtime on multi core CPUs.
  --enable-examples       If enabled, examples are built and installed when
                          "make" and "make install" are invoked. If disabled
                          (the default) they are built but not installed.
  --enable-benchmark      If enabled, the benchmark is built and installed
                          when "make" and "make install" are invoked. If
                          disabled (the default) it is built but not
                          installed.
  --enable-intraday       If enabled, date objects will support an intraday
                          datetime resolution down to microseconds. Strickly
                          monotone daycounters (Actual360, Actual365Fixed and
                          ActualActual) will take the additional information
                          into account and allow for accurate intraday
                          pricing. If disabled (the default) the smallest
                          resolution of date objects will be a single day.
                          Intraday datetime resolution is experimental.
