       Libwww-perl is a collection of Perl modules which provides
       a simple and consistent programming interface (API) to the
       World-Wide Web.  The main focus of the library is to
       provide classes and functions that allow you to write WWW
       clients, thus libwww-perl said to be a WWW client library.
       The library also contain modules that are of more general
       use.                                          

       The main architecture of the library is object oriented.
       The user agent, requests sent and responses received from
       the WWW server are all represented by objects.  This makes
       a simple and powerful interface to these services.  The
       interface should be easy to extend and customize for your
       needs.                               

       The main features of the library are:

       o  Contains various reuseable components (modules) that
          can be used separately or together.

       o  Provides an object oriented model of HTTP-style
          communication.  Within this framework we currently
          support access to http, gopher, ftp, news, file, and
          mailto resources.

       o  The library be used through the full object oriented
          interface or through a very simple procedural
          interface.

       o  Support the basic and digest authorization schemes.

       o  Transparent redirect handling.

       o  Supports access through proxy servers.

       o  URL handling (both absolute and relative URLs are
          supported).                                   

       o  A parser for robots.txt files and a framework for
          constructing robots.

       o  An experimental HTML parser and formatters (for
          PostScript and plain text).

       o  The library can cooperate with Tk.  A simple Tk-based
          GUI browser called 'tkweb' is distributed with the Tk
          extention for perl.

       o  An implementation of the HTTP content negotiation
          algorithm that can be used both in protocol modules and
          in server scripts (like CGI scripts).

       o  A simple command line client application called lwp-
          request.                            
